# Requirements

* Java 21
* Maven 3+

# Compiling

`mvn clean install`

# Running

`java -jar target/reporter-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar employee.csv`

# Documentation

Javadoc can be generated by:
`mvn javadoc:javadoc`
The generated documentation can be found in target/site/apidocs

# Assumptions

* The program exits if no file is specified in the command line
* Header is present, and the order of columns is always the same:
`Id,firstName,lastName,salary,managerId`
where the managerId is optional
* The program throws an exception if there are more than one employee without manager.
* The program throws an exception if there are no CEO (without managerId).
* The program does not check for circular connection that is A is manager of B, B is manager of C, and C is manager of A.

# Design
* Employee record stores the parsed data. 
* Implementors can use this in any way the want.
* CsvParser handles the parsing of the input data. It returns a map of Employees, where all properties are already set.
* Reporter creates the report. It receives the map of Employees, executes multiple checks (Is there a CEO?, are there multiple CEOs?) If these checks don't fail, creates the report.
* ReporterApplication is the mail class, it is checking the program arguments, and prints the report to the standard output.

### 2025.01.02
Added new report about employee(s) who are not in the hierarchy of the CEO. This can only happen if there are loops (e.g.: Employee1 is the manager of Employee2, while Employee2 is the manager of Employee1).

### 2025.01.13
- Handling empty lines
- Added custom business exceptions
- Renamed the tests to camel case
- Changed double to BigDecimal
- Added interfaces, separated api and impl package for DIP
- Added invalid input handling: 
  - line is skipped if does not have enough columns for an employee record
  - line is skipped if it has an already used id
  - line is skipped if any number cannot be parsed inside it
- Added customizable csv parsing error handling:
  - noop: skips the wrong line, prints it to the standard error
  - throw_exception: throws an exception and terminates program execution